[Transcript missing]
Good afternoon, everybody.
I'm Ken McLeod.
I'm an engineer in the
Data Security Group where we
work on Keychain and I'll be
talking about the Keychain today.
as soon as I can get this to work.
So the session basically will
start off with an overview of what
the Keychain is and what it does.
And we'll talk to you about
the new features that are
in town with the Keychain.
I'll go over the Keychain
manager APIs that are available
for your application to use.
And the last thing I'll talk about
is the whole area of managing user
interaction with the Keychain.
And at the end, we'll have a demo of the
Keychain with Mac OS X and time
So the three main questions that
this session is designed to answer,
the questions are:
What does the Keychain give me?
And how can I add support
for it to my application?
And of course, where can I get more
information about it?
Feel free, as the session goes on,
to sort of add your own list of questions
that you can ask at the end if you have
more that the session doesn't cover.
I've got here a key chain.
This is a key chain in the real world.
And I apologize for, you know,
right off drawing a distinction
between computers and the real world.
But I'll try not to do that too often.
But the real convenience and
usefulness of this thing in the
real world is that I don't have to
remember these things individually.
I don't have to remember to bring,
you know, my car key with me,
my office key, all these things.
I just have to remember one object.
I have to remember to bring my keys.
And then I have access to
all of the services or the
things that these keys unlock.
And the same idea is true of the
key chain on OS X and on OS 9.
The idea is to provide
something that is a convenience,
but much more than a convenience,
it needs to be secure.
Because when you're letting your
computer manage your keys for you,
you need some level of security.
So that leads me into the
definition of what the key chain is.
The key chain is a secure
repository for your passwords,
your digital keys,
sort of analog on the computer
of what the keys are in reality.
A much more appropriate metaphor
perhaps than even a key chain
is a sort of bank vault.
The bank vault has a door.
And when that bank vault is locked,
the things that are
in it are locked down.
You can't get out them.
They're protected.
When the door is unlocked,
there's a security guard sitting
there and he's monitoring all access.
He's checking the credentials
of everybody who takes
a key out of the vault.
The Keychain is built on something
we've been talking about called CDSA,
the Common Data Security Architecture,
which as of this week
is all open sourced.
And all of the work that the Keychain
does happens down in that layer.
CDSA has a whole series of plug-ins
for doing things like data storage
and cryptography and those pieces
are all part of that framework
that you can take a look at.
The Keychain has a convenience feature,
as I said, where clients of the Keychain
can provide something called
transparent authentication.
In other words,
the user experience of typing in
your password once to unlock your
Keychain and then not having to
type in all the passwords that are
actually stored in the Keychain,
so you have a single
sign-on user experience.
As Craig mentioned to start off with,
the Keychain is available
on both OS 9 and OS 10.
But on OS 10, every user has a Keychain.
Every user logs in,
they have a user account,
and a Keychain is
automatically created for them.
So I like to define terms when
talking about the Keychain because
it can get a little confusing.
What do we mean when we
use the word Keychain?
And there's a grammatical difference
here between Keychain with a capital
K and Keychain with a small k.
When we use Keychain with a capital K,
we're talking about the technology.
We're talking about the software
that's built into the operating system.
When we talk about
Keychain with a little k,
we're talking about the data store,
the thing that the user has that they
put their passwords and keys into.
The Keychain can be in one of two states.
Keychain is either locked or unlocked.
And the definition of an
unlocked Keychain is one that
has a key which is available to
decrypt items in the Keychain.
Without that key,
nothing can be decrypted,
nothing can be retrieved
from the Keychain,
and the Keychain is locked.
Everything that you put in a Keychain,
whether it's a key,
an actual cryptographic key, a password,
a certificate,
we use the term Keychain item to refer
to all of these things collectively.
And the other term,
the last term that we use
a lot is Default Keychain.
The Default Keychain is if you
have more than one Keychain,
this is the one where items are added to.
So, typically, a user logs in,
they have a keychain created,
but you're not limited to that
as a user or as a developer.
You can create as many
keychains as you want,
have as many unlocked as you
want to be unlocked at a time.
If you want, you can set a keychain
to lock automatically.
By default,
the keychain will be unlocked at
login and locked when you log out.
But if you want to
restrict that even further,
that's completely available to you.
The default keychain, again,
when you log in on OS X,
is unlocked and it's got the
same username--or I'm sorry,
the same name as your user account
and it uses the same password
as that account by default.
Again, you're not limited to that.
You can change it at any time,
but this is just sort of to give
the user a default keychain.
default keychain.
You can take a Keychain and move
it around from machine to machine.
And what we mean by the word "portable"
here in this context is that you can
take it from one machine to another,
you can take it from home to work,
vice versa, so you have the keys with you
on any machine that you use.
Portable in this sense does not
mean portable between 9 and 10.
Now the reason for that is that,
as you'll see when you
look at the CDSA pieces,
we have open sourced all of the
algorithms that the Keychain uses.
And on OS 9, we had some algorithms
that were proprietary and
could not be open sourced,
so we moved away from using them
and we moved towards something that
could be open sourced for OS 10.
You can put Keychain files on a server
so that you have them available.
You can put them on a CD.
You can just use them
wherever they happen to be.
And the CDSA architecture
doesn't limit us to that.
It supports,
fully supports Keychains being on
smart cards or removable tokens
so we can actually get back to
having a real world Keychain that
has a little removable token that
actually holds your digital keys.
So here's a diagram or a map of
all of the APIs that are available
across the board related to security.
Starting on the left-hand side there,
an OS 9 and still available in
Classic are the Keychain API and an
API that we talked about previously,
Macintosh file signing,
and some other ones there.
All of these are built on top of
the older version of CDSA 1.2,
which had quite a lot of limitations,
but worked well for OS 9.
Moving forward,
your applications on OS 10 will either
use Carbon or they'll use Core Services.
Now the Carbon piece sort of straddles
the line between the two implementations
of CDSA and the two platforms.
So if you write an application that
uses the Carbon and Keychain APIs,
you can run on OS 9 or on
OS 10 if you're a CFM binary.
[Transcript missing]
So, what kind of items can
you store in a Keychain?
Well, there's three basic classes
of items that are defined:
keys, passwords, and certificates.
On OS 9,
keys and certificates were there.
For the first release of OS X,
we focused on getting passwords
really supported well.
Certainly, keys and certificates are
something that we are working on,
but the focus of what I'm going to
talk about today will be passwords.
And within the class of password item,
there are three sort of categories.
We have Apple Share passwords,
which allow you to access
Apple Share servers.
Internet passwords are a more
general case for any type of
You know, protocol like SMTP, FTP,
what have you,
those sorts of things that require,
you know, access to a server.
And then the last category of
password is sort of a generic password
account and service type of item.
So let's drill down a little bit
and look inside a Keychain item.
A Keychain item's contents
are really simple.
There's two things:
there's attributes and there's data.
The data is, in this case, the password.
In this example,
just the data of the password
that I'm trying to protect.
I can add a number of attributes to the
item that help me find the item later on.
So if I'm storing, for example,
here a password for an FTP server,
I might want to add my account name
and the name of the server and some
other information that lets me find that
password item and match it back up when
I need to log back into that server.
So every item that's in a Keychain
has a set of common attributes
and all these items can be
treated more or less the same.
They have the class of the item,
they have things like the date when
the item was created or modified,
they have a label.
describes the item.
There's also a description of the item.
There's a comment field where,
with the Keychain Access application,
a user can actually add comments to
an item that's stored in the Keychain.
Within those subcategories, though,
of an Item class, there are additional
attributes that are defined.
So, for example,
if you have an Internet password,
you have things like the
protocol and the server,
which are additional attributes that
are specific to an Internet password.
And the whole purpose of adding
attributes to these things is
so that you can find the item
again when you're looking for it.
Now the data portion of
the item is protected,
as I said.
Unlike attributes,
you can't search on the data of the item,
so it can't be revealed
to you in that way.
The data cannot ever be retrieved
unless the Keychain is unlocked,
and it can't be retrieved unless
the user gives explicit permission.
Now,
I'll get into that a little bit later,
but in OS X and with CDSA 2.0,
we're able to let the user or
the administrator configure the
access control on a Keychain
item and have that be persistent.
And in the case of cryptographic keys,
private and symmetric type keys,
the data of those items is actually never
able to be retrieved from a Keychain.
You'll only be able
to use item retrieval.
references to reference the item.
[Transcript missing]
So, the data of an item is protected
and it can't be retrieved unless
the user gives an explicit okay.
Now on OS 9,
some of you have seen what this means.
It means that a dialogue comes up.
The dialogue says,
"This particular process is
trying to access this item.
Is that okay?" And the user at that
point has to make an explicit decision,
"Do I want to allow this process
access to the item?" On OS 9,
there was a problem though because
that dialogue box kept popping up
every time you accessed an item and
it got really annoying because there
was no way to securely store that
setting persistently so that after you
rebooted the machine or you came back,
the same thing wouldn't happen again.
You wouldn't be asked
again for permission.
On OS 10,
CDSA lets us have access control
lists that are persistent for an item.
On OS 11,
we have a keychain that can avoid or give
permission once to a particular process.
What we'll do is store a hash of
that process and later when that same
process tries to access the keychain,
we'll say, "Okay, yes,
this is the same process you're
allowed to access without
having that dialogue pop up."
The application or the process that puts
an item into the Keychain by default
has access to it on the philosophy that,
well, you know, they have the data
that they're giving us,
so we'll trust them to access it.
And that prevents a lot of unnecessary
asking of the user for permission.
So, every item in the Keychain can have
its own access control list and you
can configure these individually.
Allow any application to access a
particular item or you can restrict
it to just one application or
a whole series of applications.
You can use the Keychain access utility,
which is available in
the Utilities folder,
to preconfigure access.
And,
I will show you a little
demo of that later.
The access control APIs are
available in the CDSA layer.
We don't currently have any in the
Keychain Manager API to configure those.
We assume that the user or the
administrator of the machine will
set up the permissions as they see
fit for a particular Keychain item.
And of course, access control lists
stick around on OS X.
So, you know, across reboots,
it's always going to be there.
So what can you do as an application
developer with the Keychain?
Well, the first
The most important thing is you can
store things securely there in the
Keychain instead of perhaps having
to worry about how you are going
to hide a particular piece of data,
whether you're going
to encrypt it yourself,
put it in a preferences file, whatever.
We provide that now as a system service
that you can just take advantage
of and not have to worry about it.
You can also look in the Keychain when
you need to connect to a particular
service so the user doesn't necessarily
have to type in their password more than
once if that password is available in
a Keychain and the Keychain is unlocked.
So if you are connecting to, let's say,
an FTP server,
you can look first in the Keychain
to see if there is a password
for that FTP server and use that
instead of having to force the user
to type in a password every time.
And another thing you can do with it,
you're not just limited to
passwords in the traditional sense,
you can use the Keychain to store,
for example, cookies or software,
you know, perhaps serial numbers,
registration numbers,
maybe a content key for, you know,
an MP3.
There's just all sorts of little
bits of data that need to be kept
private by your application and
now there's a central place that
you can store them in a secure way.
Amen.
So, here's the sort of high-level
overview of the API.
There are two, uh,
There's sort of divisions.
There's high-level calls
and low-level calls.
And it's real easy to get
started with the high-level calls
because there's really only two.
You'll find a password or
you'll add a password if
there isn't one already there.
There's a series of low-level
routines on which those
high-level routines are built.
And so they give you the flexibility to
do perhaps a piece of what the high-level
routines do without requiring or pulling
in a lot of extra code perhaps to do
the UI like the high-level routines do.
These routines let you, for example,
search for multiple items or manage
Keychains themselves as opposed
to the items in the Keychain.
And the last area of the API is
the whole area of notification.
So when something
happens with a Keychain,
when a Keychain locks or unlocks
or when somebody takes data out,
you can get notified
when those things occur.
And then the last thing I'll talk
about there is the new factoring of the
API between Carbon and core services.
[Transcript missing]
And then once you've figured out that
the Keychain Manager is available,
you can either find or add a password.
The first thing you'll do is try
to find a password in the Keychain.
And there are three high-level
calls in the Keychain API and
Carbon that let you do that,
depending on the type of
password you're looking for.
So, for example,
if you are that FTP application,
you can call find_internet_password,
pass it the attributes
you're looking for,
the name of the server,
the fact that this is a password for FTP,
and those sorts of attributes.
And then it'll return the password if
it's in fact found in the Keychain.
And the flip side of
that is adding an item.
If the item wasn't already there,
perhaps you want to
store it in the Keychain.
And there's three calls to do that,
depending on the type of
password that you want to add.
Again, all of these are in Carbon.
And because they're high-level calls,
all of the sort of housekeeping tasks
of making sure the Keychain is unlocked,
creating a Keychain if necessary,
is all taken care of for you.
So, as I said,
the high-level APIs sort of encompass
or encapsulate a whole set of
low-level calls and just makes it
convenient and easy to use for you.
But the low-level calls are there
if you need the flexibility.
So, in this case,
the Add Internet Password call is
really just a wrapper around a whole
series of the lower-level calls.
The first to create a new item and then
to add it to a particular keychain.
And then we make a series of
calls to set whatever attributes
we need to set on the item.
And then finally,
we need to set the data of the item,
the thing that's important to protect.
And the last call there is Update Item,
which writes it out to the keychain.
So here's that diagram again,
and here are the two sort of
components of the Keychain API.
If you're a Carbon application,
everything is there
available to you from Carbon.
If you are not wanting
to use Carbon or you are,
for example, a Unix command line tool,
you can call directly to
the Security Core APIs.
Again, the split is sort of along the
lines of does this call require UI?
So, the high level calls in Carbon,
may display user interface.
For example,
if the key chain is locked and
you make this call to find the
password and a password is found,
the user may see a dialogue box come
up asking to unlock the key chain.
And that's the sort of call
where these things happen in
line and UI could come up.
So, they remain in Carbon.
When you're a
Carbon application using those,
it automatically pulls in all
of the lower level APIs that
are in Core Services.
So,
everything there is available in Carbon.
If you are going straight
to Core Services,
if you're going straight to that level,
those API calls do not display UI.
And in order to use them,
you'll include CoreServices.h.
And again, this is something that can
be used by any application,
but especially applications that
don't want or need to rely on Carbon.
So, the basic API routines at that layer,
like I said,
give you a lot of flexibility.
If you want to just create
a new item without adding
it to a particular Keychain,
you'll use new item.
Add item, of course,
adds an item to a particular Keychain.
Always you're going to access an item
through a reference called a KC Item Ref.
And no matter what the item is,
they're all treated the same.
You'll always use a reference
because you don't know exactly
what the composition or the backing
store or any of that needs to be.
If your application uses item refs,
it doesn't have to worry about
any of those underlying details.
You'll use get attribute when
you need to get an attribute from
an item and set attribute will,
of course, set the attribute on the item.
And the same thing with data.
Get data will get the data of the
item and set data will set it.
When you're all done sort of, you know,
adding or, you know,
changing the item around,
you'll use Update Item,
which will write it out to
the Keychain and commit it.
And when you're all done with an item,
we want you to call
KC Release Item because that will release
the memory that the item occupies.
Again,
if you need the flexibility of being able
to find more than one item in a Keychain,
we provide sort of a lightweight
database-type API called
FindFirst and FindNextItem.
FindFirstItem, of course,
you pass in the same sort of thing
that you would to the higher-level
ones in terms of attributes.
These are the things I'm looking for.
Find these items.
And what that will call,
what it will do is return
a search reference.
And then you can pass that search
reference to FindNextItem and continue
searching until no more items match.
And when you're all done with one
of those multiple item searches,
you can call KC ReleaseSearch and that
will release the memory that it occupies.
Now, in a similar way to using
a KC Item Ref when you're
dealing with items,
you want to use something called a
KC Ref to refer to keychains themselves.
Most of the time,
your application won't care
about keychains or where a
particular item is stored.
But if you do, you'll use a KC Ref.
We provide two routines there
to sort of translate between a
KC Ref and an object in a file system
that's specified by an alias record.
But it's real important to realize that
it's not always going to be a file.
And in fact,
you really can't assume ever that
a keychain is a file on the disk.
That's a bad thing to do.
If you were at this talk last year,
I said the same thing
and it's still true.
Now that we have actual keychain access,
we can't assume that a
keychain is a file on the disk.
So, we're going to use a
KC Ref to refer to keychains.
Now,
in a similar way to using a KC Item Ref,
we provide two routines there
to sort of translate between a
KC Ref and an object in a file system
that's specified by an alias record.
But it's real important to realize that
it's not always going to be a file.
Now that we have actual
smart card support in OS X,
this is going to be coming
sooner rather than later.
So, it's real important to remember that.
KC Get Status is a routine
that's your friend.
It will tell you a lot of information.
It will tell you whether
the keychain is unlocked,
a particular keychain
or the default keychain.
And it will tell you whether
the keychain can be written to
or if it's just open read only.
And Get Keychain Name is
pretty aptly named.
pretty aptly named, it will tell you the
name of the keychain.
If you need to explicitly
unlock a Keychain,
you have KC Unlock Keychain.
Again, most of the time,
you won't need to worry about whether the
Keychain is locked or unlocked because
all of that will be taken care of for
you and will just prompt the user to
unlock the Keychain if it's necessary.
If you need to create a new Keychain,
you'll use KC Create Keychain.
And if you need to look
through all the Keychains that
are available in the system,
we have Count Keychains and
Get End Keychain or Get a
Keychain at a Particular Index.
The notification section of
the API is pretty useful.
Every time an event
happens with a key chain,
someone unlocks it, someone locks it,
someone adds something to it,
someone retrieves data from it.
This generates a key chain event and your
application can register to get these
events to sort of see what's going on.
Perhaps you want to write a
logging application that logs
all accesses to the key chain.
You can do that by registering
for key chain events.
You'll call add callback and that will
register a routine that will call to
let you know when these things occur.
It will give you information
about what key chain it was,
what key chain item it was,
what the process was
that asked and so on.
You can register only for those
events that you care about.
For example, you may not care when the
key chain locks or unlocks.
The only thing you care about
is somebody retrieved data.
So you can just register, for example,
for that event.
. . . . . . . . And when you're all done,
you can call Remove Callback before
your application is ready to quit.
Here's a little snippet of code that
shows how simple this is really to use.
This routine, connect to server,
takes two arguments.
We're about to connect to a
server and we know something.
We know the server's name that we're
going to connect to and we know an
account that we want to connect as.
So the first thing is to see if there's a
password in the Keychain before we go and
ask the user to type in their password.
So in this case,
KC Find Internet Password
takes a series of arguments.
And the first argument it takes
is the name of the server.
And so I can just pass that in.
The server in this case
that I'm interested in.
It takes a security domain argument,
which is a string.
In this case,
I'm not concerned about the domain,
so I pass nil.
I pass in my account name.
I can pass in a port.
Since I'm not concerned
about a particular port,
I can pass the constant anyport.
I can pass in my account name.
I can pass in a port.
Since I'm not concerned
about a particular port,
I can pass the constant anyport.
I can pass in my account name.
I can pass in a port.
Since I'm not concerned
about a particular port,
I can pass the constant anyport.
I can pass in a particular protocol
type that I'm interested in
finding and an authorization type.
Or I'm sorry,
an authentication type constant there.
And then I pass in a buffer,
a pointer to a buffer that I provide,
and the length of that buffer.
If this call is successful and
it actually does find a password,
it will fill in the buffer with
the password and return no error.
So after I've made this call,
a number of things could have happened.
It could have gone off,
asked the user to unlock the keychain,
created a keychain if
no keychain existed.
All that stuff I don't have to
worry about in this routine.
It's all sort of handled for me.
So down there at the bottom,
if there's an error
returned from this routine,
then I know that no password in
fact was there in the keychain.
And I'll need to do something
to ask the user for the
password as I normally would.
And I call a routine there,
my get password.
And I call the user's internet password,
which actually would go off,
assuming that it got the
password from the user,
could go off and call kc add internet
password to put it there in the
keychain so it's there for next time.
And then when I get to the
very bottom of the routine,
either way, I have a password and then
I can connect to the server.
So the nuts and bolts of
what your application needs
to do to use the Keychain.
If you are a CFM application that's
going to be running on 10 and 9,
you'll want to link against
CarbonLib 1.1 or greater,
which has the Keychain API in it.
If you're a Carbon application on 10,
of course,
you will link with the Carbon framework.
And if you are a Cocoa application,
you can link with either one,
depending on what your needs
are and which portions of
the API you want to bring in.
If you are a command line tool,
you probably should not
link against Carbon.
You'll only want to link with the
core services framework and the things
that don't necessarily require UI.
[Transcript missing]
The Mac OS Keychain is a tool
that is run into is an application
that's perhaps a command line tool,
something running over, you know,
you're logged in via SSH, let's say,
and you're running this application and,
you know, you can't put up UI.
You have a command line interface.
So,
If you have no way of unlocking
the Keychain via this dialog box,
we provide the ability to unlock
it programmatically with KC Unlock,
but again, this is something where UI is
not the way you want to go there.
The second point that I wanted to make
is that when you're using the Keychain,
you should always let the user
decide to use the Keychain and
let the user make the decisions
about when to interact with it.
The way a lot of apps handle this is
when you have a password dialog box,
it'll have a little checkbox
next to it that says,
"Add this to my Keychain," or maybe,
"Remember this password." Again,
you're letting the user make
the decision at that point.
whether or not they want to store it.
And the final item there is a
real fundamental principle of
UI design that often gets lost,
but it bears repeating.
And that is,
All of the things that occur that
bring up UI should be the direct result
of the user having done something.
So if I make a call to find
Internet password and it
needs to put up a dialogue,
that's the same as my directly
putting up that dialogue.
And if that occurs at some
point long after the user has
interacted with your application,
it can be very confusing.
If I set up, for example,
a mail account and then, you know,
30 minutes into the future,
mail is asking me for my Keychain
password or permission to access it,
there's no consistent sort of
connection in my mind between my act of,
you know,
interacting with the mail client
or whatever it happens to be
and its use of the password.
So when you call
KC Find Internet Password
or any of these high-level
APIs that can bring up the data,
be sure that you do it as a result
of something the user has done.
They've clicked Add, they've clicked,
you know, Connect,
whatever it happens to be.
So, along those lines,
it's entirely appropriate to cache items
that you retrieve out of a Keychain.
Especially on 10,
when you have a protected memory model,
you can hold something in your own
process's memory space and other
processes running on the system,
the user happens to start up,
can't get access to it.
The caveat there is that
while memory is protected,
you want to protect against that
thing getting written out to disk.
And the way to do that
is to lock the memory.
You always make sure that memory is
locked if it contains sensitive data.
On Carbon,
the calls that you'll use to do that are
hold memory to actually lock it down and
unhold memory when you're done with it.
And the same thing for,
if you're using BSD at that level,
you'll use M-lock and M-unlock,
which is essentially the same thing.
So now I'd like to actually show you
a demo of how this works on OS X.
Down here in the Applications and
Utilities folder is your friend,
Keychain Access.
This little utility will show you your
keychains and let you manage them.
It shows you what's in a keychain.
In this case,
I have a keychain that's empty.
So,
start off with nothing in my keychain.
And I'll set up a mail account
in the mail application.
actually have an account set up here.
I have a particular email address
and I have a server name that
I'm going to be connecting to
to retrieve mail and a username.
Now it makes logical sense that those
are good attributes for a keychain item.
If I'm storing a
password in the keychain,
those are tags that I can add
as attributes so that I can find
that particular password when
I go to connect to this server.
I'm not going to type
in a password For now,
I will...
"I'm going to actually
get mail at this point,
and when I click that, I guess, uh,
Here, let's quit and try again.
I think what Mail did was cache my
password from when I set this up.
So, when mail actually goes
to connect to the server,
it has
looked in the Keychain,
found nothing there,
and is putting up a dialog
asking me to type in my password.
So I'll go ahead and do that.
And then I can make the decision
to actually remember that
or store it in the Keychain.
And then I go off and it goes off
to the server and looks for my mail.
Now notice what happened in the Keychain.
An item just got added.
So, let's quit mail and take
a look at this item.
It's got a label here,
which is the server that I connected to.
It put an internet password in there with
the account name that I logged in as.
Now there's something new for OS X with
Keychain items and we have an access
control pane now in Keychain access
that lets you sort of set up who has
access to this particular password.
So by default,
the mail application created it and we
give mail access by default to this item.
You can turn off access altogether or
you can allow access by any application
that wants to access it without
putting up that warning dialogue.
So to show you what that looks like,
I'm going to actually remove mail
from that access control list.
And now mail no longer has
pre-approved access to this item.
So when I go to save this list,
I get asked permission to actually
change the access control list here,
which I will do.
And I'll go back and run mail.
Mail goes off, tries to look the password
up in the Keychain,
finds the password,
but it doesn't have access
to just get the password
without the user's knowledge.
So I get this confirmation dialogue.
And I can look at, in fact,
the details of this.
This is the Keychain that is
being accessed and this is
the particular process that is
wanting access to this item.
And my choices are I can allow
this to occur just once or
I can permanently allow it to
occur by clicking Always Allow.
And when I do that,
if we go back to the access
control pane of this item,
we'll see that mail's
been re-added to the list.
So Mail is one client
of the Keychain in OS X,
but it's integrated
pretty well throughout.
The Finder has a connect to server to
connect to a particular Apple share,
I can speak, Apple share server.
In this case,
I can connect to iDisk.mac.com,
which is really just an AFP server.
So when I go to connect to it,
It asked me for a name and password.
And again,
Apple Share has provided some human
interface to let me decide whether or
not I want to store it in the Keychain.
So I'll click yes.
I'll go ahead and log in as
the account that I set up.
And I can mount that volume.
Now, I talked a little bit earlier
on about providing a transparent
authentication experience.
So, one thing I can do in the Apple share
case is to make an alias of the server,
or I'm sorry, of the volume,
and then I'll go ahead
and unmount this volume.
And let's first examine this item
and see who has access to it.
So we see that the
finder has access to it.
So now if I go back to the finder
and I double click on this alias,
because the finder has access,
- You get the spinning cursor and
the volume just mounts without
having to type in a password.
The other thing that's new in OS X with
Keychain access is the ability for users
to add their own types of passwords.
For example,
software registration numbers,
credit card numbers, PIN numbers,
whatever it may be.
All they have to do is click "Add"
and I can add something like,
you know, my software serial number.
For me, and I'll type in whatever
that happens to be.
I can look at it in
clear text if I want to.
That's not what it defaults to.
I'll go ahead and add it.
And now I have an item that I stored
without a whole lot of musts or fuss.
I can give a
applications pre-approval
to access this item.
If I know that a particular
application is going to need this
password or this serial number,
I can go ahead from this interface
and change the access control list.
I can go to
For example, applications and, you know,
maybe it's a serial
number for a chess game.
So I can add that and now whenever
chess looks for a serial number
that's stored in the Keychain,
the user won't be bothered with
the dialog asking for permission
because chess is pre-approved.
Now, I mentioned that by default,
the Keychain is unlocked when you log
in and it's locked when you log out.
You can change those
settings at any time.
You can have it lock after a period of
inactivity or when the system sleeps.
And of course, at any time,
you can manually lock the Keychain.
So if I manually lock the Keychain,
Then those things that need
to access it will require the
Keychain to be unlocked first.
So when I double clicked on
that alias and the finder,
or in this case Apple Share,
did a find to look for its
password in the Keychain,
the Keychain was locked.
And so we take care of putting
up this unlock dialog for you
and your application just doesn't
have to handle all of that.
So I'll unlock the key chain.
I did enter the wrong passphrase.
[Transcript missing]
And then when the Keychain unlocks,
the volume will mount.
So that's pretty much it for the demo.
Go back to the last slide if we could.
So just to sum up,
the Keychain is like a bank vault
for all of your sensitive passwords,
keys,
things that you need to store securely.
And it's provided for
you as a system service,
so it's always there and you
don't have to roll your own
code to do the encryption.
It's very simple to use.
Most applications just
need to do find and add.
And
All of this is there now in
OS X as shipped out of the box.
So go ahead, get started with it,
and thank you.
What I'd like...
[Transcript missing]
We have a number of
security sessions here.
Of course,
now three of them are already over,
but encourage you to look
at the session on Kerberos.
And if you can, if you happen to miss
any of the other two,
try to take a look at those when the
sessions become available in whatever
format they become available in.
And then please come on
Friday and talk to us.
Tell us what you want to see,
or if you have concerns about this or
suggestions for how we can improve it.
Please let us know.
Here's the email address
for all of your questions.
Talk to Craig.
Craig makes sure that we,
or the appropriate team,
gets notified so that we can
handle whatever issues come up.